>> Evan You: Shared instance.
We've noticed that when view,
a view instance takes some data in,
the default behavior is it proxies
all the root level properties on
that data object onto the view
instance itself, right?
So we can in fact use the view instance
as some sort of reactive data store or
a model which makes it look very
similar to MobX in that sense.
So if we have, because this is
a single instance we can use directly,
just do this, count:0.
>> Evan You: And more importantly,
we can colocate the logic for
possible state changes into this instance.
And we use methods for that, right?
So if we have this.
>> Evan You: So now,
we have something that's pretty neat.
We have its state in the way of state
can possible change in one place.
And because the state object
itself is reactive we
can just directly [COUGH]
reference inside other components
without even worrying about
turning it into data first.
>> Evan You: So now this counter
component will actually work,
because when state was processed by view,
view instance is reactive by default.
So the idea that it is reactive
means when you access state.count,
this would trigger a getter,
which registers the dependency,
which in turn calls this whole
render function to be reactive.
And later on, when state count changes,
this render function will be called again,
triggering the counter
component to re-render.
>> Evan You: And in our app here, it still
needs a register counter, obviously.
And we still need to somehow proxy
the call to the ink but now instead of
directly manipulating the state here,
we're just calling a function here.
So [COUGH] this may seem redundant for
this little example.
But the good thing is,
we are hiding the details of how
the state actually is mutated.
So the details of how state
actually is mutated is co-located
with the state with the store itself.
In real apps, this logic can be much more
complex than just incrementing a count.
This can involve going to an API,
fetching some things, doing filtering,
comparisons and all that and
eventually mutating the state.
And if these state logic is inherently
coupled with the state instead
of couple with the logic of those
components, then it makes sense
to take out of these logic and
put them in the centralized place, too.
So this would become your go to place.
So this state could be-
>> Evan You: So
this pattern actually applies very well.
So let say you have an app and you have
different kind of data in your app.
So you can literally change
the naming to a store and
assign them names like userStore,
productStore, and
each of them is dedicated to dealing
with one specific domain or app.
And then they can be directly imported and
used in all your components
anywhere you want.
Even reference them directly
inside render functions.
So this pattern actually works
pretty well for medium sized apps.
And if this kind of domain model based
state management is what you prefer,
you can even extend it,
to build upon it for bigger apps.
But this is already getting pretty
close to VueX which is our,
the pattern is designed
to handle bigger skills.
And if you've used VueX before you will
notice that we can rename a few things,
for example,
we can call this thing the store and-
>> Evan You: VueX has this concept called
mutations and actions.
So the difference between mutations and
actions is mutations are the code or
the functions that actually changes
your state, actually mutates your state.
So this is where the mutation happens.
And they must be synchronous.
The reason that they must be
synchronous is because Vuex has
a devtools integration.
If you've seen the devtools integration,
you know there's the time travel
feature and we have snapshots of your
state whenever a mutation happens.
If you want to take snapshots then
it is critical that the mutations
be synchronous because you
can compare the before and
after immediately after
the function is called.
If a mutation can contain
arbitrary asynchronous operations,
then after you call the mutation you
don't really know how long you have
to wait until your state
has actually changed.
So that can make the snapshot
comparisons a lot harder to implement.
So and also, asynchronicity and the actual
mutation of your code is better separated,
because asynchronicity is really sort
of a complex topic of its own, right?
So essentially in VueX the concept of
actions and mutations are really just
meant to separate asyncrhonousity from the
actual procedures of mutating your code.
Also inside actions you can do a lot of
things like calling to external APIs,
whereas your mutations will be focused
just on dealing just with the state.
Your mutations will take some
arguments and mutate the state, and
that's pretty much all
their responsibility.
While in actions there's a lot
more things you can do and
it can involve asynchronously.